1557046: Document more about event payload (#183)
mozilla/glean: docs/dev/core/internal/payload.md

# Payload format

The main sections of a Glean ping are described in [Ping Sections](../../user/pings/index.md#Ping-sections).

> This **Payload format** chapter describes details of the ping payload that are less relevant to end users of Glean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This **Payload format** chapter describes details of the ping payload that are relevant for decoding Glean pings in the pipeline.
This is less relevant for end users of the Glean SDK. 
```

Maybe something like that?

## JSON Schema

Glean's ping payloads have a formal JSON schema defined in the [mozilla-pipeline-schemas](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas/) project.
It is written as a set of [templates](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas/tree/master/templates/include/glean) that are expanded by the mozilla-pipeline-schemas build infrastructure into a [fully expanded schema](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas/blob/master/schemas/glean/baseline/baseline.1.schema.json).

## Metric types

> TODO: Fill in the rest of the metric types.

Reviewer: Bug link ;) (I'm fine either way)

### Event

Events are represented as an array of objects, with one object for each event.
Each event object has the following keys:

- `timestamp`: (integer) A monotonically increasing timestamp value, in milliseconds.  

>   The first timestamp in the array is always zero, and subsequent timestamps in the array are relative to that reference point.

Reviewer: It is zero? Isn't it the time since launch? Or an adjusted timestamp?
(See, if only we had documentation ... wait, this _is_ the documentation!)

Author: It's definitely zero.  The API we use from Android is time since boot, but for privacy reasons we don't want to leak that information at that resolution.

Author: This *is* different from pre-Glean telemetry, though.  Adding a short comment about rationale here.

Reviewer: Oh, I see. TIL.	(I checked your event implementation again to understand it)

  
- `category`: (string) The event's category.
  This comes directly from the category under which the metric was defined in the `metrics.yaml` file.
  
- `name`: (string) The event's name, as defined in the `metrics.yaml` file.

> - `extra`: (object, optional) Extra data associated with the event.

Reviewer: Maybe include an example below of two events (with and without extra)?

  Both the keys and values of this object are strings.
  The keys must be from the set defined for this event in the `metrics.yaml` file.
  The values have a maximum length of 50 bytes, when encoded as UTF-8.
  
Also see [the JSON schema for events](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas/blob/master/templates/include/glean/event.1.schema.json).

> To avoid losing events when the application is killed by the operating system, events are queued on disk as they are recorded.

Reviewer: Ah, I guess this is the part that is both relevant and not for users?
Hmmm....I guess for now at least having it somewhere is good.

# Payload format

The main sections of a Glean ping are described in [Ping Sections](../../../user/pings/index.md#Ping-sections).
This **Payload format** chapter describes details of the ping payload that are relevant for decoding Glean pings in the pipeline.
This is less relevant for end users of the Glean SDK.

## JSON Schema

Glean's ping payloads have a formal JSON schema defined in the [mozilla-pipeline-schemas](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas/) project.
It is written as a set of [templates](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas/tree/master/templates/include/glean) that are expanded by the mozilla-pipeline-schemas build infrastructure into a [fully expanded schema](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas/blob/master/schemas/glean/baseline/baseline.1.schema.json).

## Metric types

TODO: Fill in the rest of the metric types. https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1566854

### Event

> Events are represented as an array of objects, with one object for each event.

Reviewer 2: nit: should we link to the event metric type?
